many of us have used our fingers to be
able to manipulate the screen of our
mobile phones or our tablets but if you
need a more precise input method you
might want to use a stylus this digital
Stylus is like using a pencil or a pen
and you're able to get very granular and
fine control of that information on the
screen the stylus is usually connecting
to the device over Bluetooth so it's
wireless and you're often able to use
pressure sensitivity and the but buttons
on the device to enable different
functions you do have to make sure that
the stylus you're using is compatible
with the device you're connecting to so
if you're using an Apple laptop you have
to make sure that you're using the apple
pencil or something that is compatible
with that particular tablet this pairing
usually creates in the best possible
connection and enables the most number
of features for the person using that
tablet instead of holding your mobile
phone to your ear to be able to
communicate many people prefer to use a
handsfree headset this headset allows
you to hear and to talk into a
microphone so it makes it very easy to
have these phone conversations you might
use a wired headset many devices use USB
as a common headset type or you may use
the older analog connection over a trrs
connector this is a tip ring ring sleeve
connector it's commonly a 32 mm style
connector you might also hear this
referred to as an analog audio jack if
you're using an older model model of an
Apple iPhone instead of using USB you
may need to use lightning and there are
wired headsets available that have
lightning connectors at the end and of
course there are many options for
wireless headsets and most of those
headsets connect to your mobile device
using Bluetooth here's a closeup of that
analog audio jack or
trrs the trrs stands for tip ring ring
sleeve where the tip is the connection
that's on the tip of that connector and
the sleeve is the connector closest to
the back sleeve of the connector and
with a trrs there are two connectors in
the middle and these are both the ring
connectors wireless headsets of course
do not need any type of wires so you
might have something very simple that is
battery powered and connected to your
mobile device over Bluetooth if you use
that wireless headset all day you may
find that you run out of battery and you
might have to shift over to the wired
version of that
headset if you like to listen to music
on your mobile phone you may find that
the speakers on the phone don't provide
much Fidelity if that's the case for you
you might want to use wireless speakers
which provide a better sound over this
battery powered and portable speaker
system these are usually connected to
your mobile device wirelessly using
Bluetooth which allows you to take this
sound and move it anywhere you would
like within the range of that mobile
phone many of our phones and tablets
already include a camera or webcam built
into the device itself and many of our
laptops also provide that functionality
if you have a desktop or laptop that
does not have a camera or a webcam there
are options to include external
thirdparty cameras into that device
those will often connect to those
devices over a USB connection once you
connect the camera or enable it on your
mobile device you're now able to use it
in the applications so this might be for
simply capturing audio and video or you
might use it with an application to
provide video and audio
conferencing if you work in an office
and you like to take your lap laptop
home at night you may find yourself
unplugging all of the wires every day to
be able to take the laptop home and then
when you come back to the office you
have to plug all of those wires back in
again these would be wires for your
Video Connection your mouse your
keyboard perhaps your network link and
anything else that needs to be
physically connected there are easier
ways to perform that function using a
docking station docking stations are a
quick way to connect and disconnect the
laptop without having to touch any of
the cables that might on that desk they
also often provide additional interface
options and you might even be able to
plug in full-size interface Cards into
the docking station here's a docking
station that's in our office you can see
that we have a monitor and a keyboard
and a mouse probably have a network
connection on the back of this docking
station and we can simply bring our
laptop in place it on top of the docking
station and immediately start working at
the end of the day when we're ready to
leave we simply disconnect it from the
docking station and leave all of the
wires in place if you don't need support
for additional adapter cards and you
want something that's a bit more
portable you might want to use a port
replicator these are very similar to a
docking station but instead of getting a
very specific docking station for a
specific laptop these Port replicators
are commonly connecting over a USB
connection making it something that you
can use on almost any laptop or desktop
computer these are also relatively
portable because you don't have to worry
about them being very large and
supporting those adapter cards this port
replicator includes a lot of different
connectors including USB connections and
audio this one also supports micro SD
and SD card reader built into the port
replicator itself and on the other side
we have additional USB and video output
options as well if you're using a laptop
in a confined space you may find it
difficult to use an external Mouse for
that reason many Mouse functions are
built into today's laptops using a
trackpad the trackpad is usually large
area on the laptop that allows you to
use your fingers to be able to move the
mouse around without having an external
mouse that takes up even more room if
you like using the trackpad on your
laptop you can also use a trackpad on
your desktop with an external trackpad
these are usually battery powered and
they connect to your computer over a
Bluetooth connection unlike a
traditional Mouse a trackpad can provide
you with other features that perhaps a
mouse might not be able to do very
easily for example you can use different
finger options on the TR trackpad to
expand or contract different things on
the screen which would be relatively
difficult to do using a traditional
Mouse many laptops will allow you to
disable that trackpad using a function
key on this laptop you can use a
function F10 that you can see here with
the blue icon and that will enable or
disable the use of that trackpad that
way you can continue to use the keyboard
and know that you're not accidentally
going to click anything on the screen
from the trackpad
if you like using a stylus on your
tablet then you might want to use that
same technology on your laptop or
desktop computer and you can do that by
using a drawing pad this is an external
digitizer that has its own stylus to
give you the same precise input on a
desktop or laptop computer that you
might have on that tablet device this is
usually a third-party device that
connects to your computer over Bluetooth
or USB connection and allows for very
precise input so if you're someone who
enjoys using a stylus or you need it to
provide some type of artistic input this
might be a good solution for your laptop
or your desktop computer
