if you have an organization and you need
to manage all of the mobile phones used
in the organization then you need a
mobile device manager or MDM this allows
you to manage devices that may be owned
by your company or devices that are
personally owned this would be a b yod
where someone is bringing their own
device to use at work when that occurs
you need some way to be able to
centrally manage all of your mobile
devices from one place this is a
relatively specialized function and so
you need specialized software to be able
to do this an MDM allows you as the
system administrator to set certain
rules and parameters on how these mobile
devices are used so you could set
policies on which applications are
allowed or not allowed you can configure
or disable functionality of things like
your camera or GPS and effectively
control almost every aspect of these
mobile devices this also allows you as a
company to set up a partitioned area on
someone's personal phone for use by the
organization this allows your users to
have their own private data that is
protected and private to them and have a
different part of the phone that is
partitioned off just for corporate data
and from a security perspective you can
require the use of certain security
policies for example you may require
everyone in your organization to use
screen locks and those screen locks need
to have a personal identification number
or other type of access in order to
unlock that phone BYOD is a interesting
challenge for organizations this of
course stands for bring your own device
you may see this also referred to as
bring your own technology the employee
owns the phone and since they already
have a phone that simplifies things for
the employee so that they don't have to
carry around two different mobile
devices but we need to have some way to
protect the company data that is stored
in that phone and to make sure that all
the users personal information remains
personal and private this allows you to
configure from the mobile device manager
what part of that device is home or
private and what part of that device is
used for work purposes you can also set
different parameters for how the data is
protected on that device and you also
need to set policies on what happens to
the data on that device if the phone is
upgraded traded in or if the phone is
lost some organizations don't allow user
phones to be used inside of the company
instead the company will provide the
phones through cope this is corporate
owned personally enabled the company
purchases the phone they assign that
phone to a user and then they manage
that as a corporate device although the
corporation does have full control of
that device in many organizations they
allow the user to use it as a personal
device as well since the company is
purchased the phone they have complete
control over the phone and they manage
every aspect of how that particular
device managed this is very similar to
how organizations might manage laptops
desktops and other Computing devices the
company determines how information is
stored on the device what type of
information is stored on the device or
perhaps more importantly what happens to
that data if the device is changed out
or if the device is lost some
organizations will add some flexibility
to the process and allow the user to
choose from a selection of devices we
refer to that as CYO or choose your own
device having management of all of your
mobile devices from a central MDM policy
screen provides a lot of flexibility and
saves a lot of time for example you can
configure your Corporate email settings
on the mobile device manager that's
pushed down to everyone's phone and so
they don't have to make any changes at
all to gain access to their inbox they
simply turn on their phone and
everything works as it should the
security team may decide that they would
like additional Security on these mobile
devices since they are outside of the
company and can be lost easily so they
may require things like two-factor
authentication and they can specify what
type of multiactor authentication they
would like and from the MDM you can
determine what applications are allowed
on that device if there are certain
applications that are forbidden to be
installed on that device and you can
even push those applications to be
installed
automatically here's a view from an MDM
console we can see that we are looking
at a number of devices inside of the
organization we can see the device name
the platform that it uses we can see
usernames associated with that phone and
even know the email and contact
information for the phone and if you
need the IMI which is a unique
identifier that's also listed in the
mobile device manager you can drill down
on one of those devices to get more
information about it for example this is
an Apple iOS device specifically an
iPhone 13 you can see the version of I
OS that's being used we also have
information about the operating system
running on that device different device
Security Options that may be enabled or
disabled and you can see the network
summary that's currently in use for that
particular unit if we click over on the
restrictions tab you can see all of the
settings that you can enable or disable
since you are the manager of this
particular phone you can enable or
disable the camera FaceTime you can
change if voice dialing is enabled or
disabled if you want to get rid of Siri
you can turn that off inside of the MDM
and different Security Options printing
options and application options are also
configured from this restriction
screen the MDM also allows you to
configure how this device will be
synchronized over the air since these
devices are rarely plugged into a
central facility we need some way to
back up the data that's being stored on
these mobile phones some of these
settings are already preconfigured for
example your telephone information and
message mesages is something that we
know will always be configured and set
up on these devices but different
organizations might use different types
of email one organization might use
Gmail another organization might use
Microsoft Outlook each organization does
things a different way with different
settings and so the MDM allows you to
have all of those configured in one
central place it also allows you to turn
on how the data will be synchronized you
can specify whether data will be
synchronized over the Wi-Fi network only
or if it will use the cellular network
as well this is also important for
understanding how this data will also be
restored if this device fails is damaged
or you need to replace it you can also
get into the granular settings of the
synchronization for example you can
specify what specific types of data will
be synchronized will we synchronize
calendar settings will we synchronize
contact details and we may want to even
change how the data is going to be
synchronized at different times of the
day for example some organizations may
not want to use the cellular network due
to cost limitations maybe you can only
synchronize this data if it's on an
802.11 or local network fortunately most
of our mobile devices have settings
where we can specify how much of this
cellular network can be used and for
what purposes you want to check with the
contract that you have with your
cellular provider to see how much data
would be allowed over this network and
at what particular time and you as the
the administrator could configure for
example if automatic downloads are
configured and if they are configured
what size applications can be downloaded
over the mobile
network when you're setting up business
applications on these devices you're
often configuring things like Outlook
email cloud storage and other services
you would commonly set those up in the
account setting of that device where you
would need to provide a username a
password or some other type of
authentication Factor from there you can
get even more granular control over
exactly what will be synchronized and
you can choose mail contacts calendars
reminders notes or other settings you
can also set this up to be different
from other services so your
synchronization settings for Microsoft
Exchange might be very different than
the synchronizations that you configure
for Google Mail
