the laptop has become the standard
Computing platform for almost anyone
who's mobile and that's mostly because
you're able to fit so much technology
into such a small place but there is a
trade-off when it comes to
troubleshooting or dealing with these
very small components inside of a laptop
computer it is built to very precise
specifications and therefore it requires
a very precise form of troubleshooting
you'll find that certain laptops are
much easier to work on than others some
have been engineered so that you can get
inside of the system and replace memory
or storage devices other laptops are
built so that it's very difficult to
gain access to the inside of that device
and even more difficult to be able to
swap out some of those components for
that reason you'll find that different
laptop manufacturers will have very
different processes for managing and
troubleshooting their particular systems
a good example of this is how different
laptop manufacturers might handle
batteries with some laptops the
batteries are very modular and can be
removed from the laptop and replaced
with a different battery very very
easily other laptops have the battery
built into the system and it's not
designed to be swapped out by the user
this may make it very difficult if you
have to swap out a battery that's in a
system that is not designed for a
modular battery replacement you'll
generally find two different types of
batteries being used in our laptops one
is a lithium ion and the other is a
lithium ion polymer both of these are
designs that they don't have the
traditional memory effect that we had
with older battery technologies this
means you can recharge the battery at
any time and not worry that you're
affecting the overall capacity of that
particular battery you'll also find that
different manufacturers use different
types of battery form factors this means
that if you need a battery for your
laptop you need to make sure that you're
getting exactly the right battery for
that specific laptop model you'll find
that if you grab a laptop battery from a
different make model that it's not going
to fit into the battery slot of your
laptop with modular batteries it's very
easy for the enduser to be able to
remove and replace the batteries inside
of that laptop usually they have a
button that you can press that will pop
out One battery and then you can slide
another battery directly into that same
slot if the battery is built into the
laptop itself this type of modularity is
not available and usually you would have
to have a tech completely take apart the
laptop just to replace the
battery if you've maintained a group of
laptops then you know one of the most
used components on that laptop is the
keyboard This commonly means that the
keyboard is probably going to be swapped
out more than any other component on
that particular device fortunately most
laptop manufacturers make this process
relatively easy you can usually remove a
bezel on the laptop or a few screws and
the laptop keyboard will pop out as a
single unit it very often is connected
to the system board of the laptop using
a ribbon cable there's usually a
connector on the end that allows you to
easily disconnect and then reconnect a
new keyboard if you do have a user that
is having problems with their laptop
keyboard or you'd like to perform some
Diagnostics of that keyboard you could
plug in an external USB keyboard to see
what the results might be this might
allow you to work around problems that
may exist in the laptop's primary
keyboard and it can also help you
troubleshoot whether the problem is with
the hardware of the keyboard itself or
with the operating system inside of the
laptop laptop keyboards are designed to
be compact so that you can fit
everything that would be on a regular
size keyboard inside of a very small
space often there will be special keys
available such as a Windows keys or a
function key that can be used
simultaneously with other keys on the
laptop to perform secondary functions
and if the laptop is wide enough you may
find there's enough room to have numeric
keypad built into the laptop itself
extending the functionality of this
portable
platform you may find that the problem
you're having is not with the entire
keyboard but only with one key or key
cap on the keyboard this means that you
may need to replace a single key on that
keyboard on desktop systems these keys
are relatively robust you can work with
them to remove a key cap and replace the
key cap relatively easily but on a
laptop these keys are often very fragile
schule and you have to take special care
to make sure that you don't damage the
keys as you are replacing them make sure
you follow the instructions from the
manufacturer so that you don't damage
anything that may be underneath that key
cap there are different components that
are used across different laptop
keyboards and as you can see it's a very
delicate device that could be very
easily damaged so make sure you follow
those instructions you'll have no
problem replacing that keyboard
component because laptops obviously have
a relatively smaller form factor than
something we would use on a desktop that
means that we also have the internal
components with a smaller form factor an
example of this would be the memory that
we use inside of our laptop which is a
smaller form factor than what you would
find on a traditional desktop
motherboard we refer to this dual inline
memory module in a laptop as a small
outline dual inline memory module or
sodm on laptops that use these sodm
modules it's very easy to moove the
module and replace it with a new one but
not all laptops provide this level of
modularity you may find that the memory
in your laptop is soldered to the
motherboard and is not in this modular
form that means that you would have to
replace the entire system board if you
need to upgrade the memory of that
system to add or replace memory inside
of one of these systems there's usually
a place where you can open up a window
into the back of the laptop remove any
memory that might be there or add
additional memory in into the slots that
are available once you push down on that
particular module it locks in place with
clips that are on the motherboard and
that memory is now upgraded inside of
that
laptop just as our desktop computers
have a place where we can store
operating system files and user
documents we have the same requirement
for our laptop computers many of our
older laptops will use a traditional
hard drive or spinning drive that has
platters to be able to store that
information on desktop computers you may
have seen 3 and 1/2 in drives being used
for storage and on laptops because they
are a smaller form factor you'll find a
smaller storage device and that is a 2
and 1/2 in hard drive but these days we
have rapidly moved away from a spinning
drive inside of a laptop computer to a
much faster and much more reliable SSD
or solid state drive a solid state drive
is simply memory and it has no moving
Parts at all this allows us to have very
fast access to this memory and also
provides additional reliability because
we don't have to worry about that
spinning Drive failing on a laptop
device on older laptops you may see the
SSD in that same 2 and 1/2 in form
factor but newer laptops tend to have an
m.2 interface which provides a much
smaller form factor on the system board
this also makes it a much easier
installation because we simply need to
plug in that m.2 interface to be able to
have access to the data and to power up
the drive itself with the older 2 and
1/2 in form factor there were two
separate connections one for data and
one for power here's a good example of
both of these storage Drive types the 2
and 1/2 in form factor is on the left
and the m.2 interface is on the right
you can see that you have a much smaller
form factor for the m.2 over the 2 and
1/2 in which makes it very attractive
for laptops and other mobile
devices on some laptops replacing the 2
and 1/2 in storage drive or an m .2
Drive can be relatively easy there may
be a cover on the back of the laptop
that you can remove you take out a
couple of screws on the drive and you're
able to remove that drive very easily
installing an m.2 Drive is often easier
because there is a single screw where
you can install and fasten down that
particular m.2 Drive here's how easy it
is to install an m.2 interface you
simply slide in the m.2 interface card
it goes into a specific slot that is on
the m.2 interface itself you push it in
so that it's able to get a good
connection with none of this copper
showing once you have it connected and
then you can push it down and screw it
into the system board so that it will
stay in
place installing or replacing a 2 and
1/2 in formfactor drive is relatively
easy there are usually a couple of
screws that you can remove this
technician is using a special pad that
allows them to save those very tiny
screws into this little area and then
once they have that they can simply pull
it out of the interface and now your
Drive is free to add another drive back
you simply reverse the process and once
you're done installing either the 2 and
1/2 in drive or the m.2 drive you can
replace the cover on the top and your
installation is
done many users with older laptops may
want to replace the spinning hard drive
that's inside of that laptop with a
solid state drive not only is this a
more reliable form of storage it also is
a much faster form of storage it's
almost like upgrading getting a brand
new laptop just by replacing a single
component you could certainly install a
brand new operating system on the SSD
and then manually transfer all of the
user documents from one device to the
other and then install any of the
applications that they need to use this
is obviously much more timec consuming
than backing up everything that's on the
original drive and copying it over to
the new SSD to be able to do that easily
we may want to use specialized software
this is usually referred to as imaging
software or cloning software because we
are creating an exact duplicate of the
data from one storage drive to the new
one many SSD manufacturers recognize
this is a very common task and they will
include imaging software with the SSD
itself you could also use thirdparty
software like the one you see here to be
able to copy everything from one drive
or one partition into a new drive or a
new Partition sometimes this requires
you to create an entire image of the
system and you store that image on a
separate storage device then you would
install your new drive and then copy
everything from that image back to the
new drive to do this even faster you may
be able to install both the old drive
and the new drive at the same time and
use that same imaging software to Simply
image from one device to the other in
real
time many laptops today don't even have
a separate wired network connection on
the laptop itself to be able have any
connectivity to the rest of the world
that laptop uses some type of wireless
connection such as 802.11 or Bluetooth
the wireless components that provide you
with this connectivity are usually on
the motherboard itself but older laptops
may have separate interface cards that
provide this Wireless connectivity for
example you may be using 802.11 for your
local area network wireless connections
inside of a building and there may be a
mini PCI or a mini PCI Express card that
provides that 802.11 functionality you
can see that these cards are designed to
be modular so you can install and
uninstall them from the laptop system
board these cards often have small
connectors on them that you plug in the
wireless antennas that are already built
into your laptop Bluetooth is often used
as a short range network communication
and you'll often see it referred to as a
pan or a personal area network Bluetooth
allows you to connect an external Mouse
an external keyboard or any other type
of peripheral
often they are provided with separate
interface cards but most newer laptops
also have this Bluetooth functionality
built into the laptop system board
itself installing these modular cards is
very similar to the process of
installing additional memory modules
onto the system board there's very often
a panel that you can remove on the back
of the laptop and there'll be a place
where you can install that particular
component once you place the card in the
laptop it usually locks down into the
laptop with connectors that are built
into the interface and in this
particular case it's an 802.11 card so
you'll need to also connect the wireless
antenna wires you can see them down here
with the gray and the black wire and
they will connect to these smaller
connectors on the interface card
itself many of these 802.11 interfaces
whether they are on the system board
itself or an external card will usually
have two separate connectors one of them
is a main connector and the other is an
auxiliary connector you might also find
a third antenna being used for all of
your Bluetooth connections these antenna
wires commonly wrap around the outside
of the display itself this allows you to
get those antenna wires as high as
possible when you open up the screen of
your laptop and if you've ever replaced
a laptop screen you'll notice that the
antenna wires are coming right out of
the bottom of that screen so that you
can then connect them to the existing
antenna connectors on your system board
if you were to follow those wires you'd
see that they would probably go behind
your keyboard to the the system board
itself where they are connecting to the
802.11 and the Bluetooth antenna
connectors many of our modern Operating
Systems Support authentication to our
laptop using methods other than a
password for example you may have the
option to use Biometrics to be able to
unlock or gain access to your laptop
computer these Biometrics allow you to
use a fingerprint or face recognition
which means that this laptop will only
be available if you've configured your
face or your fingerprint for that laptop
operating system this means that you'll
need an operating system that is able to
use these biometric features and you'll
need the biometric Hardware to be able
to take advantage of that function this
means that you may need a fingerprint
reader on the laptop itself or you may
need a webcam or camera built into the
laptop that's able to do face
recognition this type of biometric
authentication has become relatively
secure in recent years and you'll often
find that using a face ID or some other
type a fingerprint reader is a very
secure way to lock down your laptop
computer for example if you're running
the Windows operating system there are
two biometric functions available for
authentication there's Windows hello
face which is face recognition and
windows hello fingerprint which allows
you to use a fingerprint reader you may
want to look at your laptop and see if
you have one of those fingerprint
readers built into the hardware itself
so that you can use that as additional
authentication into your laptop
computer if you if you've ever paid for
something at a point of sale terminal
using your phone or your Smartwatch then
you were using a network type known as
NFC or near field communication NFC is a
very short range networking function so
usually you have to be relatively close
often 4 cm or less just to be able to
use that function and of course we can
use NFC for more than just purchases at
a point of sale terminal we can use this
on a hospital workstation so that any
nurse that walks up to the work station
is able to authenticate using their
access card or their NFC device this is
also used for warehouses manufacturing
shipping and receiving and anywhere that
you may need to easily authenticate
wirelessly if you have a laptop and
you've used it to be in a meeting then
you've probably taken advantage of the
camera that is often built into the
laptop itself it's usually right in the
center at the very top of the screen
this not only allows you to capture
video to a file but you can also use it
for real-time video on things like a
video conference call on most laptops
not only will you have the camera right
in the middle but often there is a
microphone to the left and right so that
you're able to not only show the video
but people are able to hear exactly what
you're saying these built-in cameras are
certainly convenient and allow you to
use this functionality without carrying
around any other equipment but if you
find you need additional functionality
or a higher definition camera you may
want to use an external camera and
attach it to the top of your laptop
display

