when we hear the term wireless
technologies most of us probably think
about the wireless networks that we use
at home or at our business to be able to
connect to other devices on the network
or to the internet This type of network
is one that is standardized by the ILE E
This is the Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers And the committee
that handles the standards for this type
of network is the 802.11 committee
That's why you'll often hear these
networks referred to as 802.11 networks
However the 802.11 committee realizes
that using the 802.11 name along with a
series of letters to designate what
version of the network it happens to be
might be confusing for some So in order
to make this a bit easier to follow
they've changed the naming convention so
that the 802.11 AC standard is also
called WFI 5 They then referred to the
802.11 AX standard as Wi-Fi 6 and Wi-Fi
6E for extended And the
802.11BE standard is also called Wi-Fi 7
This makes it a bit easier to
differentiate between versions So
instead of using those 802.11 names you
can simply use Wi-Fi 5 Wi-Fi 6 Wi-Fi 7
and so on Our Wi-Fi networks have a
number of different frequencies that
they might use to be able to facilitate
this communication And different
standards of Wi-Fi use different
frequencies Most Wi-Fi networks will use
frequencies in the 2.4 GHz range the 5
GHz range and the 6 GHz range And some
access points and devices can
communicate across multiple ranges
simultaneously Instead of having to
memorize or reference a specific
frequency the 802.11 committee has
grouped frequencies together into
channels These channels are much easier
to remember than the exact frequency
value and allows you to quickly refer to
where a frequency might be based on a
broader channel number You can see these
channels being used if you look at the
wireless configuration for your device
On my device I'm running in the 2.4 GHz
range on channel 6 If you go back to the
ITLE E standards you can see that that
is also the
2.437 GHz frequency that's being used
for channel 6 I'm also using the 5 GHz
range And you can see I'm using channel
44 If we look that up we can see that
I'm communicating on
5.220 GHz You can see that it's much
easier to refer back to channel 44
rather than specifying the
5.220 GHz frequency We refer to the
amount of spectrum that we would use as
the bandwidth for that communication And
it's very common to see bandwidths of 20
40 80 or 160 MHz Let's compare the
different bandwidths and frequencies
that might be in use on an 802.11
network Let's start with the 2.4 GHz
spectrum Relatively speaking 2.4 GHz
doesn't provide you with many
frequencies And if you're using that in
a confined area with a lot of wireless
networks you may find that there's a lot
of interference from other devices This
is showing three different 20 meghertz
ranges that do not overlap in the 2.4
GHz spectrum which means there's really
three channels to choose from if you're
running something in 2.4 GHz You can see
now why we expanded into the 5 GHz range
where you have many more frequencies
available Not only in 20 MHz bandwidths
but if you wanted to use even more
bandwidth on that network to increase
your throughput you could have 40 MHz 80
MHz or 160 MHz in the 5 GHz spectrum And
when you look at 6 GHz you can see that
you have much more spectrum to work with
many more frequencies available that
allow you a lot of different bandwidths
across the 6 GHz
range But 802.11 is not the only way to
transmit wirelessly If you're using a
wireless headset or wireless speakers
you're probably using Bluetooth to be
able to connect those devices to your
computer Bluetooth technology uses the
2.4 GHz range You might also see this
referred to as the unlicensed ISM
frequencies That stands for the
industrial scientific and medical band
These are frequencies that don't require
any specialized licenses to be able to
use them which is why we can simply turn
on our computers and be able to connect
to other devices using 802.11 or
Bluetooth With 802.11 we can move around
a building and still have access to the
network But Bluetooth ranges are a bit
more confined This is why we often will
see these being used with devices that
are personally connected to us If you're
using consumer devices with Bluetooth
they have a maximum range of about 10
m Another popular wireless technology is
RFID or radio frequency identification
RFID has many different uses You might
find it in the badges you use to gain
access to your building There might be
RFID tags inside products you might
purchase or across an assembly line You
might also find RFID technology inside
of our pets This allows you to scan the
pet and know immediately who that pet
belongs to This is an example of an RFID
tag that's about the size of this grain
of rice that's right next to it There
are also other styles of tags This one
is flat Commonly see this inside of
access cards This design around the
outside is the antenna And if you look
closely at the middle you'll see the
actual RFID chip You'll notice there's
no battery connected to this RFID tag It
usually sits idle with no power
whatsoever But when you bring a scanner
close to this device the power from that
radio frequency is enough to power the
RFID tag The scanner then receives an ID
code from the tag and then compares that
to the information it has in a database
to determine what that ID tag is
referencing There are also other types
of RFID tags you might run into that do
have batteries that are able to be
actively powered so that you're able to
scan that device from a longer distance
away And many of our mobile devices
these days have another style of
wireless technology known as NFC or near
field communication NFC builds on the
technology of RFID which is generally a
one-way communication and extends that
to have two-way communication to your
NFC devices One popular use of NFC is to
use your phone or your smartwatch to pay
for products at a point of sale terminal
And if you've ever set up a device that
needs to connect to a Bluetooth network
or a wireless network it often uses NFC
in conjunction with your mobile phone to
be able to give it the configuration
parameters it needs to connect to your
network And since many people are
carrying around their phones with NFC
functionality you could use that to open
a door or to provide a type of
identification
