as we've discussed in a previous video
the port numbers used by TCP and UDP can
be very important when trying to
communicate to a service so it's useful
to know what those port numbers are if
you're trying to troubleshoot any type
of communications issue we might also
need to know these port numbers if we're
performing some type of firewall
configuration our firewalls often use
TCP and UDP port numbers as one of the
criteria that it uses to allow or to
block Lo Network traffic as you go
through this video you'll find there are
a number of port numbers that you're
required to know as part of your A+
studies you'll find that memorizing
these port numbers can sometimes feel a
bit tedious but after you start using
these applications configuring firewalls
and troubleshooting network
communication you'll find that most of
these port numbers become second nature
for the purposes of your A+ studies make
sure that you understand not only the
port number and the protocol associated
with it but that you understand why that
particular protocol is important and how
it's used on the
network the first port numbers we'll
look at are port numbers TCP Port 20 and
TCP Port 21 these two port numbers are
commonly associated with FTP or the file
transfer protocol FTP is a generic file
transfer protocol that could be used by
many different operating systems to
transfer information from one device to
another and different types of FTP may
use one or both of these prot protocols
TCP Port 20 is often used as the active
data transfer and Port 21 is often used
as the administration or control Port
the FTP protocol often requires you to
have some type of authentication into
this system so it may ask for a username
a password or some other type of
authentication Factor FTP can also be
configured with an anonymous or generic
login so that anyone can log in
regardless of what the username or
password might be FTP is also a
full-featured protocol that not only can
transfer a file but can list the files
available in a particular directory we
can add delete change the file name and
perform other Administration functions
as
well as part of our tasks as server
administrators or network administrators
we are often required to connect to our
Remote device and make configuration
changes at the command line to be able
to do this securely across the network
we need to use a protocol that can
encrypt all of this data as we're
sending it from one side to the other
the most common protocol used for this
function is SSH or secure shell it
provides an encrypted communication link
over TCP Port 22 this is very similar to
the old style tnet protocol but tnet is
one that we commonly no longer see in
use because it does not provide any type
of encryption if you're communicating at
the command line to a server you should
always be using SSH and you'll find that
it almost always is using TCP Port
22 however you may find that there is a
system in your network that is very old
that does not support SSH and the only
way to administer that device at the
command line is using the older tnet
protocol telnet stands for
telecommunications Network and it
commonly communicates over TCP Port 23
visually and functionally this works
identical to SSH you have a command line
you can log into a device with your
username and password you can administer
that device remotely but the major
difference is that all of the
communication used for tnet is in the
clear there's no encryption used for
tnet and that's why most organizations
will prevent anyone from using the tnet
protocol and instead recommend that you
use SSH to perform this
communication email continues to be one
of the most popular forms of
communication across our networks and to
be able to facilitate that communication
we need some type of protocol that can
send mail from one server to another
that protocol is the simple mail
transfer protocol or SMTP SMTP commonly
uses TCP Port 25 to be able to send
these email messages from one email
server to another you may also find that
some devices are configured to send
information to the email server
initially also using this SMTP protocol
so not only are you configuring this on
your mail server you may also o find
that you're configuring SMTP with the
appropriate port number on your local
device to be able to receive email
messages we would commonly use protocols
such as IMAP or pop 3 and we'll talk
about those protocols and their
Associated port numbers later in this
video in these videos so far we've
talked a lot about devices able to
communicate with each other using IP or
Internet Protocol the Internet Protocol
address is one very similar to what you
would see here one 62.1 159 2461 164 but
when we're typing things into our
browser we're not typing in a bunch of
numbers we're typing in the name of a
website such as
www.professormesser.com
in order to translate this fully
qualified domain name into a usable IP
address for network communication we
need to perform a translation using the
domain name system or DNS DNS commonly
uses UDP Port 53
as you can imagine DNS is a very popular
and important service because we almost
never memorize IP addresses to be able
to communicate to these devices but it's
very common to remember the fully
qualified domain name for that reason
it's very common to have multiple DNS
servers for redundancy so that we are
always able to resolve the fully
qualified domain name to the appropriate
IP
address the computer on your network was
probably not manually configured with a
set of IP addresses subnet masks default
gateways or DNS servers this was done
automatically when you turn your
computer on using the dynamic host
configuration protocol or
DHCP DHCP happens automatically behind
the scenes and it makes the entire
process of configuring your system with
these addresses completely seamless DHCP
commonly uses UDP Port 67 and UDP Port
68 on your network is a DHCP service
that may be on a standalone server or
Appliance or may be integrated into a
small office home office wireless router
that you might have at home on this
server is a pool of available IP
addresses and when a device connects to
the network it requests an IP address
and configuration parameters from that
pool when a device starts up it receives
that IP address and it leases that IP
address for a certain amount of time
when that lease is up it can choose to
renew the lease or give the IP address
back and put it into the pool for
someone else to use system
administrators can also use DHCP to
manually configure IP addresses that
will always be assigned to particular
devices so if you have a printer or
server that you would like to always
have the same IP address you can reserve
that IP address in your DHCP server and
it will be automatically assigned with
the same IP address every time that
printer or server starts
up you're probably watching this video
in a browser and to be able to perform
that functionality you're probably using
HTT TP or https this is the hypertext
transfer protocol or hypertext transfer
protocol secure the standard form of
HTTP sends all of the HTTP data over a
non-encrypted or in the clear
communication and it often uses TCP Port
80 if you see any traffic using TCP Port
443 it's probably using the secure
version of HTTP which means that all of
that web communication inside of that
packet will be encrypted a large
percentage of the devices you
communicate to in your browser are
probably going to use https these days
but you'll still find a number of web
services that are not using the
encrypted version and instead are
sending all of their traffic via TCP
Port 80 and the HTTP
protocol if you're using an email client
on your computer or your mobile device
you may be receiving emails using a
number of different protocols two of the
more popular Protocols are POP 3 and
IMAP POP 3 is the post office protocol
version three and it commonly uses TCP
Port 110 to be able to transfer data
down to your computer a newer and
somewhat more functional protocol for
receiving email is IMAP 4 or the
internet message access protocol version
4 IMAP commonly uses TCP Port 143 IMAP
provides a number of additional features
not available in pop 3 such as the
management of the inbox from multiple
clients you're able to make make folders
and transfer emails into those folders
and all of those updates will be
synchronized across all of your
different systems and all of those
updates will be synchronized across all
of your different email
clients if you're using Microsoft
Windows there's a process for
transferring data within windows that
uses a protocol named server message
block or SMB you may also see this
referred to as the common internet file
system or cifs not only is this used for
file trans transfers it's used to send
information to printer cues and for
other processes where Windows needs to
communicate information between
different Windows devices older Windows
devices used an additional protocol
inside of tcpip called netbios this net
bios protocol used two primary port
numbers to be able to communicate UDP
Port 137 used a net bios name service
which is very similar to the DNS name
service that we talked about earlier and
to be able to set up sessions to
transfer files it uses TCP Port 139 on
most modern versions of Windows you'll
find Direct connectivity between IP
addresses that don't use the net bios
protocol we refer to that as direct
communication or net bios less
communication and it often uses TCP Port
445 most organizations will have a
central database that contains all of
the important information about the
devices users and and important
resources available on their Network
this is usually a directory of services
or a database that contains all of this
information and to be able to access
this database we use a standard set of
protocols one of these protocols is ldap
or ldaps this stands for the lightweight
directory access protocol or the
lightweight directory access protocol
secure ldap commonly uses TCP port 389
this directory is usually separated into
different categories such as an
organization an organizational unit or a
common name for example at mess Studios
we might have a production
organizational unit a support
organizational unit and an engineering
organizational unit and of course within
those there may be individuals using a
common name such as Sam or Daniel and we
might also have a database called Tech
docs using ldap we can refer to this
database to find where these components
might be and in some cases even provide
a additional details such as
authentication for any individual users
a very common use of ldap is Microsoft's
active directory infrastructure where
that database is able to be referenced
using the ldap
protocol if you are troubleshooting
technology then you're probably very
familiar with remote control access of a
separate machine these days we have
users around the world and it's not very
practical for you to visit every single
one of those users directly to be able
to solve problems s on their computer in
those cases we'll probably use some type
of remote access protocol such as RDP or
remote desktop protocol this allows you
to view and share the desktop on a
Remote device using TCP Port
3389 this is primarily used to access
Windows devices and to be able to
control those windows devices across the
network you can usually do this from a
Windows device itself or from many other
operating systems as well you can use
RDP to control an entire computer or to
Simply run a single application on that
remote computer and although RDP is
commonly associated with connecting to
Windows devices there are also many RDP
clients that would allow you to connect
to that Windows computer from Mac OS
Linux Unix iPhone and other operating
systems as well
