you have a mobile phone you probably
also refer to it as your cell phone that
term cell comes from the cellular
networks that we use to be able to
communicate using these phones these
operate by having antennas that separate
areas of the land into what we're
calling cells they're antennas that
allow us coverage inside of those cells
using a number of different frequencies
and all of that together makes up our
cellular networks these cellular
networks provide both voice and data
communication and you get to decide how
that information is used by your mobile
device for example you can turn on and
off the cellular data functionality and
perhaps only use this as voice
communication or you may be familiar
with airplane mode that disables all of
the communication on this device and
then you can pick and choose which ones
you'd like to turn on
cellular technology really started
taking off with 3G technology in 1998 3g
allowed us to send and receive larger
amounts of data over these networks
which means that we were able to
increase the capabilities of our mobile
devices this allowed us to have GPS
functionality which we'll talk more
about in a moment we have mobile
television video on demand video
conferencing and other data related
services all enabled thanks to 3G we
then upgraded from 3G into the 4G
technologies sometimes we refer to these
as long-term evolution or LTE 4g is
based on a technology called GSM which
is the global system for mobile
communications sometimes you may hear
this referred to as edge or the enhanced
data rates for GSM evolution this
allowed us to have bandwidths up to 150
megabits per second so we were able to
take those data capabilities in 3G and
expand on them with 4G we were then able
to upgrade LTE to LTE advanced or LTEA
that standard allowed throughputs of up
to 300 megabits per second greatly
increasing the amount of data we could
send over these networks and our modern
mobile networks use our fifth generation
of networking or 5G 5g was introduced in
2020 and it greatly improved the
bandwidth that we were able to push over
these networks this 5G technology over
higher frequencies is designed to
support up to 10 Gbits per second and if
you're running over other frequencies
with 5G you could have 100 to 900
megabits per second of total throughput
having that much bandwidth available for
a single device changes how we're able
to use these devices for example
Internet of Things or IoT now allows
much more functionality because we're
not constrained by the amount of
bandwidth that we could send so we're
able to take these Internet of Things
devices over these 5G networks and
instantly send large amounts of data
over these wireless networks this allows
us to get notifications faster we can
transmit and receive much more data
which allows us to send a lot more into
the cloud for
processing just as our cellular
technologies have increased in speed and
function we have also had similar
increases with 802.11 wireless these are
high-speed 802.11 networks that we
commonly use at home and in our offices
this allows us to have very high-speed
throughput without any type of wired
connection these do have a limited range
however and we have a local access point
that everyone connects to to be able to
gain access to the 802.11 network this
Wi-Fi functionality enables voice video
data and almost any other type of data
transfer this 802.11 network provides
functionality for many different types
of applications and many mobile phones
allow you to communicate voice
communication over the 802.11 network so
if you're in an area where your 4G or 5G
network doesn't have very good signal
you could use that phone over your Wi-Fi
network this allows you to receive and
send calls just as if you were connected
to a 4G or 5G
network we can also turn our mobile
phones into an internet router and have
multiple devices use our phone for
internet access we refer to this as
hotspot functionality our phone is
connecting to the cellular network using
5G and then other devices are connecting
to our phone over 802.11 this means that
you can take your phone anywhere and
have everyone use your phone for
internet access this is something that
is commonly built into the operating
systems and functionality of our
existing mobile phones but it does
require that your carrier enable or
allow that functionality not all
carriers do and sometimes there's an
extra charge so make sure you check with
your mobile carrier to see what options
might be available for you one way that
your mobile carrier is able to recognize
your mobile device is through the use of
a subscriber identity module or a SIM
this is sometimes a physical card that's
inside of your mobile phone and it
contains all of the information that
identifies what your phone is on that
mobile network this means that you could
potentially take that SIM out of your
phone put it in a different phone and
now you've moved your number to a
different physical device that SIM
contains information about the carrier
that you're using and the subscriber
which is you the user of the phone it
has a SIM ID and a phone number
associated with it it contains the
information about that cellular network
that you're connected to and there's
storage space on the SIM itself that
allows you to store contacts and
messages on the SIM so when you move the
SIM from one phone to another you can
also move those contacts and messages
newer phones no longer use a physical
SIM card but instead use an electronic
version or embedded SIM sometimes you'll
see this as an eSIM that eSIM is a
physical part of that phone and can't be
physically unplugged and plugged into a
new phone but you can move that SIM
inside of that device using the software
on the phone so if you'd like to add or
move an eSIM into the phone that you're
using you can choose the option to add
an eSIM and it gives you then options on
how you might want to transfer that from
an existing phone or to use a QR code
for the transfer having that ESIM makes
it so much easier to manage that
transfer between devices if you've ever
dealt with a SIM which is the physical
card you can see that they're very small
you often need a special tool to be able
to unplug or disconnect those and you
can see that this phone supports
multiple SIMs simultaneously so that you
could have multiple phone numbers or
profiles on the same mobile phone
device if you've ever had to connect a
Bluetooth device such as a headset or an
external speaker then you know there's a
process you have to go through to make
sure that those two devices are paired
successfully this is not only a process
that ensures security but it also makes
sure that you're able to connect to that
device automatically later on this
process commonly uses a personal
identification number or a PIN to verify
the connectivity when you set it up
initially and fortunately you only have
to go through this pairing process one
time for a piece of hardware once it's
paired you can connect and disconnect
from that Bluetooth device and you don't
have to go through this pairing process
every single time although the Bluetooth
pairing process is very similar between
devices there may be nuances or
differences depending on the device
you're connecting to so check your
documentation to make sure you know the
appropriate personal identification
number or where you would find that
information on your Bluetooth device you
would start the pairing process by
enabling Bluetooth on both of the
devices that will connect to each other
if you're an iOS or Android user you'll
find this enable and disable function
under settings and Bluetooth you would
then set both of those devices to be
discoverable by each other this may
require a specific key sequence or
startup process so make sure you check
your Bluetooth device documentation to
know how to put your device into a
discoverable mode once you do this
you'll see devices start to appear on
your mobile device and then you can
select that to begin the pairing process
before the pairing process completes it
asks you to confirm a personal
identification number this might be one
that is embedded into the Bluetooth
device or it may be dynamic so that it
changes every time you try to pair with
that device again your documentation
will tell you where to find that PIN and
you'll need to confirm that PIN or type
it in on one of those Bluetooth devices
at that point the Bluetooth pairing
process is complete and those two
devices can communicate with each other
you can test this by powering down one
of those devices powering it back up and
making sure that it's able to
automatically reconnect over the
Bluetooth
connection if you've ever used the maps
functionality on your mobile phone then
you know the GPS capability can be very
helpful gps is the global positioning
system and it's a technology that was
created by the United States Department
of Defense this technology uses
satellites that are circling the Earth
and if you can see four of those
satellites with your phone then you'll
get accurate GPS readings this GPS
functionality uses differences in the
signal that is received from these
multiple satellites to determine your
longitude your latitude and the altitude
above sea level so if you're using maps
or you're using an app that has location
functionality it may be using GPS to
determine that but GPS is not the only
way to determine where you are some apps
use the Wi-Fi networks that are around
you to get a better idea of where you
might be even if GPS is not currently
available and some cellular networks are
able to triangulate based on the
different cellular towers to determine
where you might be as well so if you are
having a problem communicating or
receiving GPS signals you may be able to
use these other technologies to locate
where you might be

