with every person you know and everyone
in your organization walking around with
a phone a tablet or even both of those
we need to have different ways to be
able to connect these devices back to
the computers and networks that we
normally use and of course it seems that
each device has a different way of
connecting and communicating back to
your computer in this video we'll look
at wired connectivity Wireless
connectivity and all of the different
standards and options that you might
have available on today's mobile devices
you'll find that these connections that
we use for these mobile devices are used
for more than simply charging the
battery we often might use them for
connectivity and synchronization of the
data on these devices you might want to
back up what's on that device or use it
as a way to identify that the device is
really
yours one of the most common ways to
connect these mobile devices is using
USB or the universal serial bus these
are standard connections that we've used
for years and years and of course the
connectors themselves have changed a bit
as time has gone on you'll find that
there are different types of connections
for USB for older devices you may find
the mini and micro USB plugs are very
popular these were certainly used on
older mobile devices but you may find
even devices in use today are still
using these very specific USB types you
may find of course that our mobile
devices are getting smaller and smaller
but these interfaces are made for a much
larger style of interface and although
many of our modern devices have migrated
away from the micro b plug or the mini B
plug you may still use the USB type a
connection to plug into your Computing
device like your desktop computer or
your laptop computer more modern devices
are still using the universal serial bus
but they're using a newer version
referred to as
USBC this describes this physical
connection of a USBC plug inside of this
connection are 24 pins and they have the
same style of connection regardless of
how you might plug it in this can easily
replace the older USB 2.0 connection all
the way up to the latest standard of USB
and we can even put different types of
signals on this wire even though they
are all using the same type of connector
as its physical interface for example
you might find that this USB connection
is used for more than just serial
connectivity you could see display port
HDMI and Thunderbolt all can use that
single connector to be able to transmit
video data and other information USBC
was designed to be a connector that's
easy to use because you can plug it in
in any orientation and it also supports
a higher speed than the older USB style
connectors that we used to
use if you're using an older mobile
device used by Apple you may not be
using a USB connection you may instead
be using a proprietary connection from
Apple known as a lightning connector
this lightning connector has eight pins
and it's commonly used for older iPhone
and iPad devices lightning was
introduced to resolve a number of
problems with the older USB connection
standard for example it supported a
higher power output so it could charge
your phones and your tablets a little
bit faster it can be inserted either way
so you don't have to keep moving the
connector back and forth and up and down
to try to find the right connection and
this relatively simple design made it
easy to be able to use this across many
different devices the challenge of
course is that you might be using or
supporting a number of different mobile
devices from a number of different
manufacturers so you may be walking
around with a lot of different connector
types and cables inside of your bag just
to be able to support all of these
different components this might change
going forward as we move towards a
single USBC connector type instead of
using these many and very different
connections if you want to communicate
wirelessly there are also a number of
options available on your mobile device
one of those options is NFC or near
field communication NFC is commonly used
to transmit a little bit of data over a
very short connection NFC is often built
into your phone your tablet and your
Smartwatch and it's often used as
payment systems for paying something at
a point of sale terminal or you might
use it as identification to be able to
gain access through a particular door or
to be able to transfer information from
one phone to another some organizations
might have a sensor on on the wall and
they use NFC in a watch or phone to be
able to act as an access control so
instead of walking around with an ID
card or a separate access card you could
simply use the phone that you're
carrying
anyway if you're using wireless headsets
or wireless keyboards and mice then
you're probably using Bluetooth
Bluetooth allows us to connect devices
over a high-speed Network at relatively
short distances often we refer to this
as a personal area network or a pan this
is is commonly used for devices that we
would personally use on that mobile
device things like tethering your
smartphone to be able to connect
wirelessly or using it to connect
wireless headphones or headsets all of
these types of Bluetooth Communications
are designed for the individual although
it is possible to connect multiple
phones and devices together using this
Bluetooth networking
technology another useful mobile
connection type is to use your mobile
phone as an internet router if we have
many people connecting to our mobile
phone for internet access we refer to
that as a hotspot if we simply have one
device that is connecting to this mobile
phone and that is the only device that's
able to use that phone we often refer to
that as tethering this is functionality
that's commonly associated with the
software in your phone and the
capabilities from your phone provider so
you may want to contact your mobile
provider for your telephone and find out
if a hotspot functionality is something
that you can use on your mobile device
