here's an image of a pretty common data
center where you have rack after rack
after rack of equipment and you can see
there is a lot of equipment on one row
of this and there are many rows in this
particular data center there is a lot of
technology in this data center and there
are many different services running on
each of these individual racks in this
video we'll look at different services
that you might expect to find in a data
center like this one
we're all very used to typing in a
website into our browser address bar so
we might go to google.com or professor
messor.com but behind the scenes there
is some work done to convert that fully
qualified domain name to an IP address
the device that's doing that conversion
is a DNS server dns of course stands for
domain name system and it's responsible
not only for resolving an IP address
from a fully qualified domain name it
can also provide that same service in
reverse and provide much more as well
this is a distributed platform with
thousands and thousands of DNS servers
running on the internet at any
particular time and the load across
these DNS servers is distributed
primarily based on the domain names that
they support so there are a group of
servers that support professor
messor.com and anytime you type in my
website it accesses either those servers
or a cached version of information from
those servers to be able to provide you
with the appropriate IP address this is
something that's usually managed by your
service provider or you may have a
number of internal DNS servers that's
managed by your local organization
another important service is DHCP or
dynamic host configuration protocol this
is the protocol that's able to
automatically assign IP address and
other configuration settings anytime you
start your computer you don't have to
remember IP addresses or type anything
in dhcp will take care of all of that
work for you this is a widely used
service that you will see not only in a
local network at home but also the
networks that we would use in our
enterprise and in the enterprise we tend
to have multiple DHCP servers for
redundancy if one DHCP server is
suddenly unavailable we have other
servers that can still provide IP
address information for devices on the
network file sharing provides a way to
centrally store information so that you
and other people in the organization can
easily access it this is a great way to
share spreadsheets documents and
anything else that you need to share
with other people within your
organization or with people that may be
outside of your organization there's
usually a standard type of file service
if you're running in Windows you
probably have a service that is using
SMB or server message block if you have
Mac OS in your environment you're
probably using Apple filing protocol
there are many different standards for
sharing information and it depends on
the applications and the operating
systems that you happen to be using most
of the time you don't even know if
you're using SMB AFP or some other type
of file sharing system the operating
system tends to hide those protocols so
all you see is a file management
frontend where you can drag drop rename
and modify the files that are stored in
that folder
although a great deal of our work is
done digitally there are still times
when we need to print information onto a
piece of paper to be able to do that
we're going to use a printer but we need
some type of service that will manage
the process of receiving these print
jobs queuing them up inside of the
printer and then making sure that all of
those print jobs print successfully on
those printing devices sometimes this is
a separate computer that is connected to
the printer and that separate computer
is running the print service software or
it may be built into the printer itself
there may be a network card that you
slide in that card not only provides
your interface to the network it also
provides the print service software if
you were to look at the documentation
for your printer you'll probably see
that it supports a number of different
protocols for printing across the
network such as SMB which is server
message block IP which is the internet
printing protocol and LPD which is the
line printer
demon email continues to be one of the
most popular applications used around
the world and of course we need email
servers so that we can send and receive
these email messages these email servers
may be in the cloud and managed by your
internet service provider or cloud
service provider or you may have local
email servers in your own data center
that you're managing yourself this is
one of those rare services that has a
very high uptime expectation you always
expect your email to be flowing and you
always expect there to be access to your
email messages and as system
administrators we have to make sure that
we're planning designing and
implementing email services so that they
are available as much as
possible if you're managing switches
routers servers firewalls and almost any
other type of device on your network
then you're probably collecting log
files on all of those devices often
you'll want to consolidate all of those
log files back to one central database
and the protocol that allows you to do
that is SIS log there's usually a
central server called a SIM this stands
for security information and event
manager the SIM is a central
consolidation point for all of your log
files and it allows you to correlate
information together even across very
diverse systems since you're bringing
back a lot of log information to one
central point it's very common that your
SIS log server have a lot of log space
available because you will be keeping
logs for a very long time across many
different
systems if you're accessing information
from a browser then you're connecting to
a web server a web server is one that
responds to all of these browser
requests and generally is using the HTTP
or HTTPS protocol that of course is the
hypertext transfer protocol and
hypertext transfer protocol secure
developers build pages in a protocol
known as the hypertext markup language
or HTML and those are web files that are
stored on the web server your browser
accesses those files interprets the HTML
and presents to you the graphical
display in your browser
if you've ever connected to your
corporate network and provided your
username and password then you've
probably interacted with an
authentication server you'll sometimes
hear this referred to as a AAA server
which stands for authentication
authorization and accounting the primary
job of the authentication server is to
check your username and password and
then provide access to whatever services
you might need this usually has a
centralized database so that you can
easily administer all of the users on
your network all from one central point
you don't generally see an
authentication server on a home network
primarily because there's not a lot of
services that you would need to connect
to and secondly we usually will just use
a username password and share that among
our family members but in an enterprise
environment we have to provide the
highest levels of security and we do
that by making sure that everyone has
their own set of credentials since the
authentication server is an important
step to gain access to every other
resource in the organization we usually
create redundant authentication servers
so that if one happens to fail we're
still able to
authenticate most organizations are
collecting a lot of different types of
information and we need somewhere to
store that information one of the most
common places is a database server
database servers store information in
database tables you can think of these
tables as a very large spreadsheet and
they have the ability to connect tables
to each other to form a relational
database that way you can have separate
links where different types of data have
relationships to other types of data in
other tables this creates relationships
between different tables and allows you
to easily link data together and find
exactly what you're looking for a
standard language used to store and
retrieve information from this database
is known as structured query language
you'll hear this referred to as SQL or
SQL you'll see SQL mentioned in some of
the popular database servers such as
Microsoft SQL Server MySQL and
others have you noticed that the time
and the date on your computer is always
very accurate we're able to get that
level of accuracy because your computer
is talked to an NTP server or network
time protocol this is more important
than you might think because we use time
for so many different things on the
network not only to compare log files
across multiple systems but many of our
encryption technologies require that all
of your systems are running with the
correct date and the correct time we
will generally have one or more NTP
servers running they are referencing a
central clock so that all of them have
exactly the right date and time and then
on your local computer whether you're
running Windows Mac OS Linux or any
other operating system there is an NTP
client your NTP client is configured to
access a particular NTP server and it
checks in with that server periodically
to make sure that the date and time are
always
accurate all of us have received
unsolicited emails known as spam and
often we have a separate filter that
puts spam into a separate folder or
keeps it out of our inbox we're able to
perform that function thanks to a spam
gateway this is often a separate service
that's in the cloud or on a separate
server that evaluates every email
message that's coming in determines if
it might be legitimate or might be spam
and then categorizes it properly in your
email system you'll notice sometimes
that you have to go into your spam
folder to see if you can find legitimate
messages because this process is not
always 100% accurate this is an
important service that keeps the
unsolicited information away from your
eyes and allows you to focus on what's
important in your email
inbox many organizations will put an
all-in-one security appliance on the
outside of their network between them
and the internet sometimes we refer to
this as a next generation firewall a
unified threat management system or UTM
or perhaps a web security gateway these
devices have many different functions
all combined into one single device this
will have URL filtering or content
inspection it might be looking for
malware either in the email messages or
real-time network traffic it could have
a spam filter built into it it might
even have a CSU DSU for connecting to
older wide area network connections on
the back may be router and switch
interfaces along with firewall
functionality IPS functionality and even
ways to shape the bandwidth to minimize
the impact of certain applications on
the network and there might even be VPN
functionality that allows you to connect
securely to other sites or to have
endusers connect directly to this device
over a secure channel
one of the ways that organizations
maintain the uptime and availability of
their services is to have those services
running on a load balancer load
balancers are designed to connect many
different devices all at the same time
and be able to share the load across
those many systems so an organization
might build a web server farm with
multiple web servers and they have those
web servers connected to a load balancer
as incoming requests are received those
requests are distributed evenly across
all of those servers if one of those
servers was to fail the load balancer
would automatically know that that
server was no longer communicating and
would take it out of the rotation the
remaining devices on that load balancer
would then share the load with that
server now out of the picture this gives
the technicians time to evaluate the
problem resolve that issue and put the
server back onto the load balancer where
the load balancer will automatically
know that it's back in service and begin
sending additional requests to the
server now that it's up and running this
process occurs very quickly and the end
users have no idea that an outage even
occurred some organizations will take
advantage of a proxy server for either
inbound or outbound communication a
proxy server receives a request from a
client it then makes that request on
behalf of the client to that service
receives the response from that service
and evaluates the response if everything
within that response looks appropriate
and is secure it then now sends that
response to the end user this is
primarily used as a security tool but it
could also be used for access control it
can provide some level of caching it
also has the ability to do content
scanning so that you can limit what type
of information is able to be received
through that proxy server often the
proxy server is sitting invisibly in the
network and the end users have no idea
that there is a proxy that is evaluating
the inbound and outbound traffic from
their
device if you work in an organization
that has a lot of industrial equipment
then you're probably familiar with SCADA
or ICS scada is the supervisory control
and data acquisition system you might
also see this referred to as a
industrial control system or ICS so if
you work for a company that provides
power services maybe you work in the oil
and gas industry or a manufacturing
company you're probably very familiar
with controlling that largecale
equipment using the SCADA technology
this is a specialized system that allows
you to view manage control and maintain
these systems remotely and it does it
all across the network which obviously
means that we need a very secure network
so that no one else gains access to
these very valuable and in many cases
very important systems most
organizations with these SCADA systems
will have a completely segmented network
that is only accessible either by
physically visiting that particular part
of the network or accessing it through a
very controlled
system one of the interesting
characteristics of technology is once
you set it up and turn it on it will go
forever as long as it has power and the
system continues to be working properly
and it's not unusual to walk through a
data center and see equipment that was
installed 10 15 20 years ago or even
longer we usually refer to these older
systems as legacy systems just because
something is old doesn't mean that it's
not important and in many cases these
legacy systems can be very important
which is probably the reason that they
haven't been swapped out already and you
may find that learning how to manage and
maintain the legacy system can be just
as important as managing and maintaining
the brand new systems another important
service might be an embedded system an
embedded system is a purpose-built
device where very often we do not have
direct access to the operating system
that is running on that embedded system
for example if you think about a fire
alarm system or a time clock system
these are usually self-contained units
where you are interacting with those
devices on a daily basis but you don't
directly interact with the operating
system it's up to the manufacturer of
that equipment to provide you with the
tools to support it but very often it's
a system that doesn't require a lot of
ongoing maintenance the manufacturer of
the system will usually give you
everything you need to be able to keep
that system up and running but very
often you don't have to do a lot of
ongoing maintenance with an embedded
system another category of services that
has become very popular are IoT devices
or internet of things this is a broad
category of devices which could be
appliances such as refrigerators or
coffee makers it might be smart devices
where you can talk to the device and
have it perform a series of functions or
maybe this deals with air conditioning
or heating controls within your
organization some IoT devices can
provide access through a doorbell or a
garage door and one of the challenges
with IoT devices is that the companies
making refrigerators or speakers or
thermostats are very good at making
those appliances and air control systems
but they may not be good at connecting
to networks and maintaining security of
those networks for that reason you may
want to put these IoT devices on their
own segmented network to limit any
access that could occur should someone
gain access to an IoT device

